Let's take a higher view of web security with Spring.
In your typical Java web application,
the client makes an HTTP request to a web server,
like Tomcat or JBoss.
The request is then forwarded to the appropriate servlet for processing.
The response is then updated and returned to the client.
For a Spring web application,
the servlet handling all requests would be the dispatcher servlet.
Another key component here are filters,
which sit in front of the servlets and intercept requests.
They can perform some actions on the request response objects and
forward them on to the next filter in the chain.
Spring Security makes heavy use of these filters.
Basically, to enable Spring Security,
you just have to register the Spring Security filter,
the DelegatingFilterProxy, with your servlet container.
The DelegatingFilterProxy will forward all requests to other Spring Security
filters to perform authentication or authorization checks.
This is one of the key strengths of Spring Security and Spring Boot.
You only need to configure two components with the web server,
the dispatcher servlet and the DelegatingFilterProxy.
That's it.
You don't need to use any other features of the web container,
which makes the framework very portable.
You can easily plug it in to any application server quickly.
Let's take a quick look at the filter interface.
The specification for a filter requires three methods to be implemented,
the init method, which is called when the filter is put into service,
the destroy method, which is called when it is taken out of service.
Any initialization or cleanup code can be placed here.
The key method is the doFilter method.
This is where all the action takes place.
IsExecuted on each request the filter is configured to receive,
giving it access to the Request and Response objects.
The FilterChain object passed into the method gives it the ability to
forward the request on to the next filter in the chain.
If we dive a little deeper,
we can see that the DelegatingFilterProxy is registered in
the Spring container's web XML file,
and it simply delegates to another Spring filter known as the FilterChainProxy,
which also delegates to another object called the SecurityFilterChain.
The SecurityFilterChain is a wrapper around a collection of
Spring filters that perform the actual security tasks on the
Request and Response objects.
Don't worry.
This will make more sense in the subsequent sections.
But as you're probably already starting to see,
Spring Security is made up of a lot of filters and even
filters and filter chains within filters.
So let's now take a look at how Spring Security is
configured in the web application.
Traditionally, this is done via the web XML file.
As you can see here, we simply register the DelegatingFilterProxy with the name,
springSecurityFilterChain and provide a mapping.
The key here is the filter mapping.
As you can see, the pattern is /*.
Hence,
every request that the container receives will be
intercepted by the DelegatingFilterProxy. So Spring Security will be performing all security checks on all requests.